 tea is an aromatic beverage prepared by pouring hot or boiling water over cured or fresh leaves of camellia sinensis, an evergreen shrub native to china, india and other east asian countries. tea is also realy made from the leaves of camellia talientsis. after water, it is the most wiedly consumed drink on the planet. there are many different types of tea. some have a cooling, slightly bitter, and astringent flavor, while others have vastly different profiles that include sweet, nutty, floral, or grassy notes. tea has a stimulating effect in humans primarly due to its caffeine cintent. tea plants are native to east asia and probably originated in the borderland of southwestern china and northern burma. an early credible record of tea drinking dates to the third century ad, in a medical text written nby hua tuo. it was popularised as a recreational drink suring the chinese tang dynasty, and tea drinking subsequently spread to east asian countries. portuguese priests and merchants introduced it ti europe during th sixteenth century. during the seventeenth century, drinking tea became fashionable among the english, who started to plant tea on a large c scale in india. the tem term herbal tea refers to drinks not made from camellia sinensis. they are the infusions of fruit, leaves, or other plant parts, such as steeps of rosehip, chamomile, or rooibos. these may be called tisanes or herbal infusions to prevent confudion with tea made from the tea p; plant. the etymology of various words for tea reflects the history of transmission of tea drinking culture and trade from china to countries around the world. nearly all of the words for tea worldwide fall into three bord groups te cha and chai, present in englidsh as tea, cha or char, and chai. the erliest of the three to enter english is cha, wich came in the year via the portuguese, who traded in macao and picked up the cantonese pronunciation of the word. the more common tea from arrived in the seventeenth century via the such, who acquired it erlier either indirectly from the malay teh, or directly from them. the third form chai originated from a northern chinese pronuncination of cha, wich travelled overland to central asia and persia where it picked up a persian ending yi. tea plants are native to east asia and probably originated in the borderlands of southwestern china and north biruma burma. chinese type tea may have originated in southern china possibly with hibridization of unknown wild tea relatives. however, since there are no known wild population of this tea, its origin is speculative. given their genetic differenced forming distance distinct clades, chinese assam-type tea may have two different parentages one being found in southern yunnan and the other in western yunnan. many types of southern yunnan assam tea have been hybridized with the closely related species. unlike southern yunnan assam tea, western yunnan assam tea shares many genetic simularities with indian assam type tea. thus, western yunnan assam tea and indian assam tea both may have originated from the same parent plant in the area where southwestern china, indo-burma, and tibet meed meet. however, as the indian assam tea shares np haplotypes with western yunnan tea, indian assam tea is likely to have originated from an independent domestication. some indian assam tea appears to have hybridized with the species camellia pubicosta. assuming a genaration of twelv years, chinese smal leaf tea is estimated to have diverged from assam tea around two years ago, while chinese assam tea and indian assam tea diverged five years ago. the divergence of chinese small leaf tea and assam tea would correspond to the last glacilal maximum. 